sMockin Version 1.6.2

Intelligent API simulation for application development and QA testing


GETTING STARTED

    Requirements:

        - Java 8
        - Maven 3

        Please Note
            -   All bash scripts were written and tested on GNU Bash version 3.2.57(1)-release.
            -   All BAT files were were written and tested on Windows 7.


    Installing:

        - From GitHub, clone or download and unpack to a suitable location.

        Linux / OSX

            - Ensure the script 'install.sh' is executable:

                chmod +x install.sh

            - Run the script 'install.sh'.

        Windows

            - Run the script 'install.bat'.


        This creates a config directory under your user called .smockin, containing a H2 JAR and db.properties file. The H2 DB file will also be situated from here, if you choose to use the default DB config.)

        To use your own DB vendor:

            - Remove the default H2 JDBC driver file (i.e. h2-1.4.194.jar) from '.smockin/db/driver'.

            - Copy your chosen JDBC driver to this same location '.smockin/db/driver'.

            - Edit the properties file '.smockin/db/db.properties' with your connectivity details.


    Running:

        - Ensure ports 8000 (used by Admin UI), 8001 (used by Mock Server) and 9092 (used by H2 TCP DB) are all available on the local machine.

          (If required the 'Admin UI' and 'H2 DB' ports can be changed by editing the ''.smockin/app.properties' file. The 'Mock Server' port can
          be changed from within the application from the Dashboard.)

        Linux / OSX

            - Once installed, ensure the scripts 'start.sh' and 'shutdown.sh' are both executable:

                chmod +x start.sh
                chmod +x shutdown.sh

            - Run the script 'start.sh' to build and run sMockin like so (this also launches the default H2 database in TCP mode.):

        Windows

            - Run the script 'start.bat' to build and run sMockin like so (this also launches the default H2 database in TCP mode.):


        sMockin runs off port 8000 by default and accessible from this address:

            http://localhost:8000/index.html

        For those who simply want to see sMockin in action, there is a script available which will add a small
        data set of predefined mocked endpoints and rules to the DB. To install this, please see the section
        'DEVELOPMENT SCRIPTS > Sample Data' below.


    Stopping:

        Linux / OSX

            - Both sMockin and the H2 database can be easily shutdown by launching the 'shutdown.sh' script:

        Windows

            - Simply close the respective command shells for both the H2 database and sMockin.


    Uninstalling:

        - To uninstall sMockin, firstly shutdown both the sMockin application and then H2 database (See 'Stopping' above).

        - Then run the following script:

            Linux / OSX

                Run the script 'uninstall.sh'

            Windows

                Run the script 'uninstall.bat'

        (This will remove any config and db files relating to sMockin from your system.)

        - Finally you can simply erase the main sMockin application directory from wherever you copied it on your system.


    Development Modes (Linux & OSX & running from source only):

        By default 'start.sh' starts sMockin asynchronously (in the background) using a H2 DB (in TCP mode).

        To aid development, sMockin can also be started in the following modes:

            DEBUG        Allows remote debugging on port 8008.
                e.g:     ./start.sh -DEBUG

            INMEM        Uses an in-memory DB, instead of TCP.
                e.g:     ./start.sh -INMEM

        These commands can also be combined.

            e.g.

                ./start.sh -DEBUG             will enable the debug port and use the main DB.
                ./start.sh -DEBUG -INMEM      will enable the debug port and use an in-memory DB.



DEVELOPMENT SCRIPTS (Linux & OSX only)

    A few utility scripts can be found under the 'client_scripts' dir.

    (these scripts all assume sMockin, is running locally from port 8000.)


    Sample Data:

        To install the sample data set to the sMockin DB:

            -  Navigate to the 'client_scripts' dir.

            - Ensure the the script is executable:

                chmod +x apply_sample_data.sh

            - Assuming both sMockin (and the H2 DB if applicable) are running, execute the script:

                ./apply_sample_data.sh

            - To put these changes into effect, restart the RESTFul mock server. You can do this from
               either the Admin UI or using via the following scripts:

                ./shutdown_rest_mock_server.sh
                ./start_rest_mock_server.sh



UPDATING TO LATER VERSIONS

    Moving from an older version of sMockin to a later version is simple.

    All config and DB data is stored under the settings dir '.smockin' located under your user home.

    Therefore as long as this settings dir is preserved then updating sMockin is simply a case of deleting the
    current application and replacing this with a later version.

    The bundled 'start' script will always automatically handle any data migration that may need to take place.

    (Please note the above text, is only applicable to mainline releases of sMockin and where neither the code base or
    database of the previous/outgoing version have been subject to local/customised changes).



LICENCE

    sMockin is licensed according to the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.

    The full text of this license can be found at https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
